# Climate Change Markets

There was this cool idea that I thought up in the light of a discussion involving potential solutions which could help address climate change by bringing incentives into the system. The idea in itself is pretty simple - imagine a market whose offering is roughly something along the lines of - The market invites bids towards the notion that the city of Miami will sink due to rising sea levels before 2050.

In the above market, there are two sides you can choose - one which assumes that Miami will sink or one that assumes the other way. Going by the assumption of a rational market, incentives will be aligned to ensure that both sides are balanced reasonably (ie) there is no major skew towards one end. The city in question has to pay a required percentage to the people who were part of the "not sinking" team in the event that Miami survives - this is a small cost to pay for the city surviving. On the other hand, Miami gets investments from all around to reduce the impact of climate change, one could even imagine the rate paid to entities as something similar to the interest rate. In the event Miami disappears of course, the market resolves in favour of those people and those who bet for Miami lose what they have.

The nice thing you get from the above mentioned idea is you can get people to act when there are financial incentives involved - the current Paris Agreement as popularly understood involves more volunteerism than enforcement and this leads to countries facing no sort of action when withdrawing from the Paris Agreement (especially when it is a state as powerful as the US). The presence of a market presents financial incentive for participating bodies to align towards one side and to make their decision clear.

We could do this using something like Augur where people vote and resolve outcomes, on a traditional market like NYSE or use any scheme where the conditions of the contract can be enforced. This can also be done by mutual cooperation or by using a construction where everyone loses their money if they don't cooperate but that isn't going to happen and has not happened fior a very long time now.
